# Analyzing-Restaurant-Attributes-to-Predict-Closure
## EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
#### People in the United States are spending more money dining at restaurants than ever before, with foodservice sales totaling $770 billion in 2019, a 4.4% increase from 2018 (Stribling, 2020) and projected at $899 billion in 2020 (National Restaurant Association, 2020). This shows the restaurant industry's importance in our society and, as a result, competition is high. Any restaurant that does not gain competitive advantage or adopt strategies to keep the business afloat may suffer a loss of customers to their competitors, which could lead to a decline in revenue and closure (DiPietro, 2016; Gagić et al., 2013).
#### We acknowledge that restaurants can also fail (close) or succeed (stay open) for a variety of reasons, including food quality, bankruptcy, economic factors, and restaurant environment (DiPietro, 2017). However, we need to analyze other internal factors that influence closure. This is where the Yelp Dataset comes in. This project aims to analyze the Yelp 2019 Dataset to predict the likelihood of restaurant closure based on different attributes. Attributes in the dataset include but are not limited to parking, table service, Wi-Fi, ambiance, price range, wheelchair accessibility, acceptance of credit cards or cash only service, categories (Fast Food, Italian, Mexican, Chinese, American etc.), family accommodations, star ratings, reviews and more. These attributes point to the demand for intangible and tangible restaurant experience by customers. The importance of these experiences and how they affect restaurant or failure will be highlighted through a literature review. After this, attributes that show major significance to closure will be identified with predictive models.
#### Findings from the analysis show Selection Tree with High-Performance Support Vector Machine as the best model with 81.24% accuracy. The five most important predictors of restaurant closure, as indicated by the Selection Tree in this model, are Review Counts, Chain Counts, Entertainment, Is Chain (indicating if the restaurant is a chain or not), and Good for Dinner. Therefore, this study recommends restaurants at high risk of closure should provide entertainment such as background music or improve the existing ones, and promotions could be put in place to encourage customers to leave reviews on Yelp after visiting the restaurant. Also, restaurants that experience low traffic at dinner time and are considered "not good for dinner" can tailor their menu options to suit customer needs.
